The President:
Hello, everybody.
Earlier this week, I spent some
time with the hardworking men
and women of the
American auto industry,
who are busy writing a new
chapter in America's story.
Just a few years ago, their
industry was shedding hundreds
of thousands of jobs.
Two of the Big Three
-- GM and Chrysler --
were on the brink of failure.
If we had let this great
American industry collapse --
if we had let Detroit
go bankrupt --
more than one million Americans
would have lost their jobs in
the middle of the worst
recession since the
Great Depression.
I refused to let that happen.
These jobs are worth more
than just a paycheck --
they're a source of pride and
a ticket to the middle class.
These companies are worth more
than just the cars they build --
they're a symbol of American
innovation and a source of our
manufacturing might.
So in exchange for help,
we demanded responsibility.
We got the companies to
retool and restructure.
Everyone sacrificed.
And three years later, the
American auto industry is back.
Today, GM is the number
one automaker in the world.
Chrysler is growing faster
in America than any other
car company.
Ford is investing billions in
American plants and factories,
and plans to bring
thousands of jobs back home.
All told, the entire industry
has added more than 200,000 new
jobs over the past
two and a half years.
And they're not just
building cars again --
they're building better cars.
Thanks to new fuel efficiency
standards we put in place,
they're building cars that will
average nearly 55 miles per
gallon by the middle
of the next decade.
That's almost double
what they get today.
That means folks will be able to
fill up every two weeks instead
of every week, saving the
typical family more than $8,000
at the pump over time.
That's a big deal, especially as
families are yet again feeling
the pinch from
rising gas prices.
So what's happening in Detroit
will make a difference.
But it won't solve everything.
There's no silver bullet for
avoiding spikes in gas prices
every year.
There's no shortcut to taking
control of our energy future.
We have to pursue an
all-of-the-above strategy that
helps develop every
source of American energy.
And we have to do it now.
The good news is, we've
been making progress.
Here -- take a
look at this chart.
Six years ago, 60% of the
oil we used was imported.
Since I took office, America's
dependence on foreign oil has
decreased every single year.
In fact, in 2010, for the
first time in 13 years,
less than half the petroleum
we consumed was imported.
Part of that's because we're
producing more oil here at home
than at any time in
the last eight years.
But we can't just drill our
way out of this problem.
While we consume 20%
of the world's oil,
we only have 2% of the
world's oil reserves.
We've got to develop new
technologies that will help us
use new forms of energy.
That's been a priority
of mine as President.
And because of the investments
we've made, our use of clean,
renewable energy has
nearly doubled --
and thousands of Americans
have jobs because of it.
Now we need to keep at it.
And to do that, we need
to make the right choices.
Here's one choice we
can make right now.
Every year, $4 billion of your
tax dollars goes to subsidizing
the oil industry.
These are the same companies
making record profits --
tens of billions
of dollars a year.
I don't think oil companies
need more corporate welfare.
Congress should end
this taxpayer giveaway.
If you agree with me, I'm
asking you to email, call,
or tweet your representative.
Tell them to stop fighting
for oil companies.
And tell them to start
fighting for working families.
Tell them to fight for the
clean energy future that's
within our reach.
Because the sooner
we all get started,
the sooner we'll
get there together.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.